Hammer Curls
R.drawable.img1
R.drawable.img2
R.drawable.img3
.
Stand up with your torso upright and a dumbbell on each hand being held at arms length. The elbows should be close to the torso. The palms of the hands should be facing your torso. This will be your starting position. Now, while holding your upper arm stationary, exhale and curl the weight forward while contracting the biceps. Continue to raise the weight until the biceps are fully contracted and the dumbbell is at shoulder level. Hold the contracted position for a brief moment as you squeeze the biceps. Tip: Focus on keeping the elbow stationary and only moving your forearm. After the brief pause, inhale and slowly begin the lower the dumbbells back down to the starting position. Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
Concentration Curls
concentrationcurls.jpg
.
Sit down on a flat bench with one dumbbell in front of you between your legs. Your legs should be spread with your knees bent and feet on the floor. Use your right arm to pick the dumbbell up. Place the back of your right upper arm on the top of your inner right thigh. Rotate the palm of your hand until it is facing forward away from your thigh. This will be your starting position. While holding the upper arm stationary, curl the weights forward while contracting the biceps as you breathe out. Only the forearms should move. Continue the movement until your biceps are fully contracted and the dumbbells are at shoulder level. Tip: At the top of the movement make sure that the little finger of your arm is higher than your thumb. This guarantees a good contraction. Hold the contracted position for a second as you squeeze the biceps. Slowly begin to bring the dumbbells back to starting position as your breathe in. Caution:Avoid swinging motions at any time. Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions. Then repeat the movement with the left arm.
Lying Supine Dumbbell Curl
lyingsupinedumbellcurl1.jpg
.
Lie down on a flat bench face up while holding a dumbbell in each arm on top of your thighs. Bring the dumbells to the sides with the arms extended and the palms of the hands facing your thighs (neutral grip). While keeping the arms close to your torso and elbows in, slowly lower your arms (as you keep them extended with a slight bend at the elbows) as far down towards the floor as you can go. Once you cannot go down any further, lock your upper arms in that position and that will be your starting position. As you breathe out, slowly begin to curl the weights up as you simultaneously rotate your wrists so that the palms of the hands face up. Continue curling the weight until your biceps are fully contracted and squeeze hard at the top position for a second. Tip: Only the forearms should move. Upper arms should remain stationary and elbows should stay in throughout the movement. Return back to the starting position very slowly.