Legs
Barbell Squat 
Barbell Squat.jpg
Begin with the barbell supported on top of the traps. The chest should be up and the head facing forward. Adopt a hip-width stance with the feet turned out as needed. Descend by flexing the knees, refraining from moving the hips back as much as possible. This requires that the knees travel forward. Ensure that they stay align with the feet. The goal is to keep the torso as upright as possible. Continue all the way down, keeping the weight on the front of the heel. At the moment the upper legs contact the lower legs reverse the motion, driving the weight upward.
Barbell Lunge 
Barbell Lunge.jpg
This exercise is best performed inside a squat rack for safety purposes. To begin, first set the bar on a rack just below shoulder level. Once the correct height is chosen and the bar is loaded, step under the bar and place the back of your shoulders (slightly below the neck) across it. Hold on to the bar using both arms at each side and lift it off the rack by first pushing with your legs and at the same time straightening your torso. Step away from the rack and step forward with your right leg and squat down through your hips, while keeping the torso upright and maintaining balance. Inhale as you go down. Note: Do not allow your knee to go forward beyond your toes as you come down, as this will put undue stress on the knee joint. Using mainly the heel of your foot, push up and go back to the starting position as you exhale.
Bodyweight Lunge 
Bodyweight Lunge.jpg
Stand erect with your feet hip-width apart, chest out, and shoulders back, maintaining the natural curvature of your spine. Your knees should be unlocked and your hand on your hips. This is your starting position. Take a moderate-length step forward with one foot, descending to a point in which your rear knee approaches the floor without touching, maintaining your body's upright posture. Your front knee should bend about 90 degrees, but for knee health it should not be forward of the vertical plane that extends straight up from your toes. If so, take a slightly longer step. From the bottom position, push back up from your forward foot, bringing it back beside the other. 
Leg Extensions 
Leg Extensions.jpg
For this exercise you will need to use a leg extension machine. First choose your weight and sit with your legs under the pad and the hands holding the side bars. This will be your starting position. Tip: You will need to adjust the pad so that it falls on top of your lower leg (just above your feet). Also, make sure that your legs form a 90-degree angle between the lower and upper leg. If the angle is less than 90-degrees then that means the knee is over the toes which in turn creates undue stress at the knee joint. If the machine is designed that way, either look for another machine or just make sure that when you start executing the exercise you stop going down once you hit the 90-degree angle. Using your quadriceps, extend your legs to the maximum as you exhale. Ensure that the rest of the body remains stationary on the seat. Pause a second on the contracted position. Slowly lower the weight back to the original position as you inhale, ensuring that you do not go past the 90-degree angle limit.
Leg Press 
Leg Press.jpg
Using a leg press machine, sit down on the machine and place your legs on the platform directly in front of you at a medium (shoulder width) foot stance. (Note: For the purposes of this discussion we will use the medium stance described above which targets overall development; however you can choose any of the three stances described in the foot positioning section). Lower the safety bars holding the weighted platform in place and press the platform all the way up until your legs are fully extended in front of you. Tip: Make sure that you do not lock your knees. Your torso and the legs should make a perfect 90-degree angle. This will be your starting position. As you inhale, slowly lower the platform until your upper and lower legs make a 90-degree angle.Pushing mainly with the heels of your feet and using the quadriceps go back to the starting position as you exhale.
Narrow Stance Hack Squats 
Narrow Stance Hack Squats.jpg
Place the back of your torso against the back pad of the machine and hook your shoulders under the shoulder pads provided. Position your legs in the platform using a less than shoulder width narrow stance with the toes slightly pointed out. Your feet should be around 3 inches or less apart. Place your arms on the side handles of the machine and disengage the safety bars (which on most designs is done by moving the side handles from a facing front position to a diagonal position). Begin to slowly lower the unit by bending the knees as you maintain a straight posture with the head up (back on the pad at all times). Continue down until the angle between the upper leg and the calves becomes slightly less than 90-degrees (which is the point in which the upper legs are below parallel to the floor). Inhale as you perform this portion of the movement. Begin to raise the unit as you exhale by pushing the floor with mainly with the heels of your feet as you straighten the legs again and goback to the starting position.
Seated Calf Raise 
Seated Calf Raise.jpg
Sit on the machine and place your toes on the lower portion of the platform provided with the heels extending off. Choose the toe positioning of your choice (forward, in, or out) as per the beginning of this chapter. Place your lower thighs under the lever pad, which will need to be adjusted according to the height of your thighs. Now place your hands on top of the lever pad in order to prevent it from slipping forward. Lift the lever slightly by pushing your heels up and release the safety bar. This will be your starting position. Slowly lower your heels by bending at the ankles until the calves are fully stretched. Inhale as you perform this movement.
Lying Leg Curls 
Lying Leg Curls.jpg
Adjust the machine lever to fit your height and lie face down on the leg curl machine with the pad of the lever on the back of your legs (just a few inches under the calves). Tip: Preferably use a leg curl machine that is angled as opposed to flat since an angled position is more favorable for hamstrings recruitment. Keeping the torso flat on the bench, ensure your legs are fully stretched and grab the side handles of the machine. Position your toes straight (or you can also use any of the other two stances described on the foot positioning section). This will be your starting position. As you exhale, curl your legs up as far as possible without lifting the upper legs from the pad. Once you hit the fully contracted position, hold it for a second.
Shoulders
Side Laterals to Front Raise 
Side Laterals to Front Raise.jpg
In a standing position, hold a pair of dumbbells at your side. This will be your starting position. Keeping your elbows slightly bent, raise the weights directly in front of you to shoulder height, avoiding any swinging or cheating. At the top of the exercise move the weights out in front of you, keeping your arms extended. Lower the weights with a controlled motion. On the next repetition, raise the weights in front of you to shoulder height before moving the weights laterally to your sides. Lower the weights to the starting position. 
Arnold Dumbbell Press 
Arnold Dumbbell Press.jpg
Sit on an exercise bench with back support and hold two dumbbells in front of you at about upper chest level with your palms facing your body and your elbows bent. Tip: Your arms should be next to your torso. The starting position should look like the contracted portion of a dumbbell curl. Now to perform the movement, raise the dumbbells as you rotate the palms of your hands until they are facing forward. Continue lifting the dumbbells until your arms are extended above you in straight arm position. Breathe out as you perform this portion of the movement. After a second pause at the top, begin to lower the dumbbells to the original position by rotating the palms of your hands towards you. Tip: The left arm will be rotated in a counter clockwise manner while the right one will be rotated clockwise. Breathe in as you perform this portion of the movement.
Barbell Front Raise 
Barbell Front Raise.jpg
Adopt a pronated, shoulder-width grip on the barbell from a standing position. Allow your arms to hang straight down to mid thigh with the elbows extended. Your head should face forward, with your shoulders back and your chest up. Maintain a neutral spine and contract your abs to provide core support. This will be your starting position. Initiate the movement by flexing the shoulder, raising the weight straight out in front of you. Keep the elbows extended and the wrist neutral throughout the movement. Continue the upward movement of the arms until the barbell is just above shoulder height. At the top of the motion, pause briefly, and then slowly return to the starting position. 
Bent Over Dumbbell Rear Delt Raise With Head On Bench 
Bent Over Dumbbell Rear Delt Raise With Head On Bench.jpg
Stand up straight while holding a dumbbell in each hand and with an incline bench in front of you. While keeping your back straight and maintaining the natural arch of your back, lean forward until your forehead touches the bench in front of you. Let the arms hang in front of you perpendicular to the ground. The palms of your hands should be facing each other and your torso should be parallel to the floor. This will be your starting position. Keeping your torso forward and stationary, and the arms straight with a slight bend at the elbows, lift the dumbbells straight to the side until both arms are parallel to the floor. Exhale as you lift the weights. Caution: avoid swinging the torso or bringing the arms back as opposed to the side. After a one second contraction at the top, slowly lower the dumbbells back to the starting position.
Dumbbell Shoulder Press 
Dumbbell Shoulder Press.jpg
While holding a dumbbell in each hand, sit on a military press bench or utility bench that has back support. Place the dumbbells upright on top of your thighs. Now raise the dumbbells to shoulder height one at a time using your thighs to help propel them up into position. Make sure to rotate your wrists so that the palms of your hands are facing forward. This is your starting position. Now, exhale and push the dumbbells upward until they touch at the top. Then, after a brief pause at the top contracted position, slowly lower the weights back down to the starting position while inhaling.
Machine Shoulder (Military) Press 
Machine Shoulder (Military) Press.jpg
Sit down on the Shoulder Press Machine and select the weight. Grab the handles to your sides as you keep the elbows bent and in line with your torso. This will be your starting position. Now lift the handles as you exhale and you extend the arms fully. At the top of the position make sure that you hold the contraction for a second. Lower the handles slowly back to the starting position as you inhale.
Triceps
Bench Dips
Bench Dips.jpg
For this exercise you will need to place a bench behind your back. With the bench perpendicular to your body, and while looking away from it, hold on to the bench on its edge with the hands fully extended, separated at shoulder width. The legs will be extended forward, bent at the waist and perpendicular to your torso. This will be your starting position. Slowly lower your body as you inhale by bending at the elbows until you lower yourself far enough to where there is an angle slightly smaller than 90 degrees between the upper arm and the forearm. Tip: Keep the elbows as close as possible throughout the movement. Forearms should always be pointing down. Using your triceps to bring your torso up again, lift yourself back to the starting position. Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
Close-Grip EZ-Bar Press 
Close-Grip EZ-Bar Press.jpg
Lie on a flat bench with an EZ bar loaded to an appropriate weight. Using a narrow grip lift the bar and hold it straight over your torso with your elbows in. The arms should be perpendicular to the floor. This will be your starting position. Now lower the bar down to your lower chest as you breathe in. Keep the elbows in as you perform this movement. Using the triceps to push the bar back up, press it back to the starting position by extending the elbows as you exhale. 
Cable Rope Overhead Triceps Extension 
Cable Rope Overhead Triceps Extension.jpg
Attach a rope to the bottom pulley of the pulley machine. Grasping the rope with both hands, extend your arms with your hands directly above your head using a neutral grip (palms facing each other). Your elbows should be in close to your head and the arms should be perpendicular to the floor with the knuckles aimed at the ceiling. This will be your starting position. Slowly lower the rope behind your head as you hold the upper arms stationary. Inhale as you perform this movement and pause when your triceps are fully stretched. Return to the starting position by flexing your triceps as you breathe out.
Cable One Arm Tricep Extension 
Cable One Arm Tricep Extension.jpg
With your right hand, grasp a single handle attached to the high-cable pulley using a supinated (underhand; palms facing up) grip. You should be standing directly in front of the weight stack. Now pull the handle down so that your upper arm and elbow are locked in to the side of your body. Your upper arm and forearm should form an acute angle (less than 90-degrees). You can keep the other arm by the waist and you can have one leg in front of you and the other one back for better balance. This will be your starting position. As you contract the triceps, move the single handle attachment down to your side until your arm is straight. Breathe out as you perform this movement. Tip: Only the forearms should move. Your upper arms should remain stationary at all times. Squeeze the triceps and hold for a second in this contracted position. Slowly return the handle to the starting position.
Dips - Triceps Version 
Dips - Triceps Version.jpg
To get into the starting position, hold your body at arm's length with your arms nearly locked above the bars. Now, inhale and slowly lower yourself downward. Your torso should remain upright and your elbows should stay close to your body. This helps to better focus on tricep involvement. Lower yourself until there is a 90 degree angle formed between the upper arm and forearm. Then, exhale and push your torso back up using your triceps to bring your body back to the starting position.
Dumbbell One-Arm Triceps Extension 
Dumbbell One-Arm Triceps Extension.jpg
Grab a dumbbell and either sit on a military press bench or a utility bench that has a back support on it as you place the dumbbells upright on top of your thighs or stand up straight. Clean the dumbbell up to bring it to shoulder height and then extend the arm over your head so that the whole arm is perpendicular to the floor and next to your head. The dumbbell should be on top of you. The other hand can be kept fully extended to the side, by the waist, supporting the upper arm that has the dumbbell or grabbing a fixed surface. Rotate the wrist so that the palm of your hand is facing forward and the pinkie is facing the ceiling. This will be your starting position. Slowly lower the dumbbell behind your head as you hold the upper arm stationary. Inhale as you perform this movement and pause when your triceps are fully stretched. Return to the starting position by flexing your triceps as you breathe out. The upper arm should remain at all times stationary nexto your head.
Reverse Grip Triceps Pushdown 
Reverse Grip Triceps Pushdown.jpg
Start by setting a bar attachment on a high pulley machine. Facing the bar attachment, grab it with the palms facing up (supinated grip) at shoulder width. Lower the bar by using your lats until your arms are fully extended by your sides. Tip: Elbows should be in by your sides and your feet should be shoulder width apart from each other. This is the starting position. Slowly elevate the bar attachment up as you inhale so it is aligned with your chest. Only the forearms should move and the elbows/upper arms should be stationary by your side at all times. Then begin to lower the cable bar back down to the original staring position while exhaling and contracting the triceps hard.
Back
back1.jpg
back2.jpg
One-Arm Dumbbell Row
onearmdumbellrow.jpg
Choose a flat bench and place a dumbbell on each side of it. Place the right leg on top of the end of the bench,  and place your right hand on the other end of the bench for support. Use the left hand to pick up the dumbbell on the floor and hold the weight while keeping your lower back straight.This will be your starting position. Pull the resistance straight up to the side of your chest, keeping your upper arm close to your side and keeping the torso stationary. Breathe out as you perform this step. Tip: Concentrate on squeezing the back muscles once you reach the full contracted position. Also, make sure that the force is performed with the back muscles and not the arms. Finally, the upper torso should remain stationary and only the arms should move. The forearms should do no other work except for holding the dumbbell; therefore do not try to pull the dumbbell up using teforearms.  Repeat the movement for the specified amount of repetitions. Switch sides and repeat again with the other arm.
Hug Knees to Chest
hugkneestochest1.jpg , hugkneestochest2.jpg
Lie down on your back and pull both knees up to your chest. Hold your arms under the knees, not over (that would put to much pressure on your knee joints). Slowly pull the knees toward your shoulders. This also stretches your buttocks muscles.
Superman
superman.jpg
To begin, lie straight and face down on the floor or exercise mat. Your arms should be fully extended in front of you. This is the starting position. Simultaneously raise your arms, legs, and chest off of the floor and hold this contraction for 2 seconds. Tip: Squeeze your lower back to get the best results from this exercise. Remember to exhale during this movement. Note: When holding the contracted position, you should look like superman when he is flying. Slowly begin to lower your arms, legs and chest back down to the starting position while inhaling. Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions prescribed in your program.
Biceps
bicep.jpg
Hammer Curls
hammercurls.jpg
Stand up with your torso upright and a dumbbell on each hand being held at arms length. The elbows should be close to the torso. The palms of the hands should be facing your torso. This will be your starting position. Now, while holding your upper arm stationary, exhale and curl the weight forward while contracting the biceps. Continue to raise the weight until the biceps are fully contracted and the dumbbell is at shoulder level. Hold the contracted position for a brief moment as you squeeze the biceps. Tip: Focus on keeping the elbow stationary and only moving your forearm. After the brief pause, inhale and slowly begin the lower the dumbbells back down to the starting position. Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
Concentration Curls
concentrationcurls.jpg
Sit down on a flat bench with one dumbbell in front of you between your legs. Your legs should be spread with your knees bent and feet on the floor. Use your right arm to pick the dumbbell up. Place the back of your right upper arm on the top of your inner right thigh. Rotate the palm of your hand until it is facing forward away from your thigh. This will be your starting position. While holding the upper arm stationary, curl the weights forward while contracting the biceps as you breathe out. Only the forearms should move. Continue the movement until your biceps are fully contracted and the dumbbells are at shoulder level. Tip: At the top of the movement make sure that the little finger of your arm is higher than your thumb. This guarantees a good contraction. Hold the contracted position for a second as you squeeze the biceps. Slowly begin to bring the dumbbells back to starting position as your breathe in. Caution:Avoid swinging motions at any time. Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions. Then repeat the movement with the left arm.
Lying Supine Dumbbell Curl
lyingsupinedumbellcurl1.jpg , lyingsupinedumbellcurl2.jpg
Lie down on a flat bench face up while holding a dumbbell in each arm on top of your thighs. Bring the dumbells to the sides with the arms extended and the palms of the hands facing your thighs (neutral grip). While keeping the arms close to your torso and elbows in, slowly lower your arms (as you keep them extended with a slight bend at the elbows) as far down towards the floor as you can go. Once you cannot go down any further, lock your upper arms in that position and that will be your starting position. As you breathe out, slowly begin to curl the weights up as you simultaneously rotate your wrists so that the palms of the hands face up. Continue curling the weight until your biceps are fully contracted and squeeze hard at the top position for a second. Tip: Only the forearms should move. Upper arms should remain stationary and elbows should stay in throughout the movement. Return back to the starting position very slowly.
Chest
chest.jpg
Clock Push-Up
clockpushup.jpg
Move into a prone position on the floor, supporting your weight on your hands and toes. Your arms should be fully extended with the hands around shoulder width. Keep your body straight throughout the movement. This will be your starting position. Descend by flexing at the elbow, lowering your chest toward the ground. At the bottom, reverse the motion by pushing yourself up through elbow extension as quickly as possible until you are air borne. Aim to “jump” 12-18 inches to one side. As you accelerate up, move your outside foot away from your direction of travel. Leaving the ground, shift your body about 30 degrees for the next repetition. Return to the starting position and repeat the exercise, working all the way around until you are back where you started.
Dumbbell Bench Press
dumbellbenchpress1.jpg , dumbellbenchpress2.jpg
Lie down on a flat bench with a dumbbell in each hand resting on top of your thighs. The palms of your hands will be facing each other. Then, using your thighs to help raise the dumbbells up, lift the dumbbells one at a time so that you can hold them in front of you at shoulder width. Once at shoulder width, rotate your wrists forward so that the palms of your hands are facing away from you. The dumbbells should be just to the sides of your chest, with your upper arm and forearm creating a 90 degree angle. Be sure to maintain full control of the dumbbells at all times. This will be your starting position. Then, as you breathe out, use your chest to push the dumbbells up. Lock your arms at the top of the lift and squeeze your chest, hold for a second and then begin coming down slowly. Tip: Ideally, lowering the weight should take about twice as long as raising it. Repeat the movement for the prescribed amount of repetitions of your training program.
Leg Over Floor Press
legoverfloorpress.jpg
Lie on the floor with one kettlebell in place on your chest, holding it by the handle. Extend leg on working side over leg on non-working side.Your free arm can be extended out to your side for support. Press the kettlebll into a locked out position. Lower the weight until the elbow touches the ground, keeping the kettlebell above the elbow. Repeat for the desired number of repetitions.


