Clock Push-Up
clockpushup.jpg
Move into a prone position on the floor, supporting your weight on your hands and toes. Your arms should be fully extended with the hands around shoulder width. Keep your body straight throughout the movement. This will be your starting position. Descend by flexing at the elbow, lowering your chest toward the ground. At the bottom, reverse the motion by pushing yourself up through elbow extension as quickly as possible until you are air borne. Aim to “jump” 12-18 inches to one side. As you accelerate up, move your outside foot away from your direction of travel. Leaving the ground, shift your body about 30 degrees for the next repetition. Return to the starting position and repeat the exercise, working all the way around until you are back where you started.
Dumbbell Bench Press
dumbellbenchpress1.jpg
Lie down on a flat bench with a dumbbell in each hand resting on top of your thighs. The palms of your hands will be facing each other. Then, using your thighs to help raise the dumbbells up, lift the dumbbells one at a time so that you can hold them in front of you at shoulder width. Once at shoulder width, rotate your wrists forward so that the palms of your hands are facing away from you. The dumbbells should be just to the sides of your chest, with your upper arm and forearm creating a 90 degree angle. Be sure to maintain full control of the dumbbells at all times. This will be your starting position. Then, as you breathe out, use your chest to push the dumbbells up. Lock your arms at the top of the lift and squeeze your chest, hold for a second and then begin coming down slowly. Tip: Ideally, lowering the weight should take about twice as long as raising it. Repeat the movement for the prescribed amount of repetitions of your training program.
Leg Over Floor Press
legoverfloorpress.jpg
Lie on the floor with one kettlebell in place on your chest, holding it by the handle. Extend leg on working side over leg on non-working side.Your free arm can be extended out to your side for support. Press the kettlebll into a locked out position. Lower the weight until the elbow touches the ground, keeping the kettlebell above the elbow. Repeat for the desired number of repetitions.

