Jogging-Treadmill 
Jogging-Treadmill.jpg
To begin, step onto the treadmill and select the desired option from the menu. Most treadmills have a manual setting, or you can select a program to run. Typically, you can enter your age and weight to estimate the amount of calories burned during exercise. Elevation can be adjusted to change the intensity of the workout. Treadmills offer convenience, cardiovascular benefits, and usually have less impact than jogging outside. A 150 lb person will burn almost 250 calories jogging for 30 minutes, compared to more than 450 calories running. Maintain proper posture as you jog, and only hold onto the handles when necessary, such as when dismounting or checking your heart rate. 
Rope Jumping 
Rope Jumping.jpg
Hold an end of the rope in each hand. Position the rope behind you on the ground. Raise your arms up and turn the rope over your head bringing it down in front of you. When it reaches the ground, jump over it. Find a good turning pace that can be maintained. Different speeds and techniques can be used to introduce variation. Rope jumping is exciting, challenges your coordination, and requires a lot of energy. A 150 lb person will burn about 350 calories jumping rope for 30 minutes, compared to over 450 calories running. 
Bodyweight Squat 
Bodyweight Squat.jpg
Stand with your feet shoulder width apart. You can place your hands behind your head. This will be your starting position. Begin the movement by flexing your knees and hips, sitting back with your hips. Continue down to full depth if you are able,and quickly reverse the motion until you return to the starting position. As you squat, keep your head and chest up and push your knees out.
Sit-Up 
Sit-Up.jpg
Lie down on the floor placing your feet either under something that will not move or by having a partner hold them. Your legs should be bent at the knees. Place your hands behind your head and lock them together by clasping your fingers. This is the starting position. Elevate your upper body so that it creates an imaginary V-shape with your thighs. Breathe out when performing this part of the exercise. Once you feel the contraction for a second, lower your upper body back down to the starting position while inhaling.
