Side Laterals to Front Raise 
Side Laterals to Front Raise.jpg
In a standing position, hold a pair of dumbbells at your side. This will be your starting position. Keeping your elbows slightly bent, raise the weights directly in front of you to shoulder height, avoiding any swinging or cheating. At the top of the exercise move the weights out in front of you, keeping your arms extended. Lower the weights with a controlled motion. On the next repetition, raise the weights in front of you to shoulder height before moving the weights laterally to your sides. Lower the weights to the starting position. 
Arnold Dumbbell Press 
Arnold Dumbbell Press.jpg
Sit on an exercise bench with back support and hold two dumbbells in front of you at about upper chest level with your palms facing your body and your elbows bent. Tip: Your arms should be next to your torso. The starting position should look like the contracted portion of a dumbbell curl. Now to perform the movement, raise the dumbbells as you rotate the palms of your hands until they are facing forward. Continue lifting the dumbbells until your arms are extended above you in straight arm position. Breathe out as you perform this portion of the movement. After a second pause at the top, begin to lower the dumbbells to the original position by rotating the palms of your hands towards you. Tip: The left arm will be rotated in a counter clockwise manner while the right one will be rotated clockwise. Breathe in as you perform this portion of the movement.
Barbell Front Raise 
Barbell Front Raise.jpg
Adopt a pronated, shoulder-width grip on the barbell from a standing position. Allow your arms to hang straight down to mid thigh with the elbows extended. Your head should face forward, with your shoulders back and your chest up. Maintain a neutral spine and contract your abs to provide core support. This will be your starting position. Initiate the movement by flexing the shoulder, raising the weight straight out in front of you. Keep the elbows extended and the wrist neutral throughout the movement. Continue the upward movement of the arms until the barbell is just above shoulder height. At the top of the motion, pause briefly, and then slowly return to the starting position. 
Bent Over Dumbbell Rear Delt Raise With Head On Bench 
Bent Over Dumbbell Rear Delt Raise With Head On Bench.jpg
Stand up straight while holding a dumbbell in each hand and with an incline bench in front of you. While keeping your back straight and maintaining the natural arch of your back, lean forward until your forehead touches the bench in front of you. Let the arms hang in front of you perpendicular to the ground. The palms of your hands should be facing each other and your torso should be parallel to the floor. This will be your starting position. Keeping your torso forward and stationary, and the arms straight with a slight bend at the elbows, lift the dumbbells straight to the side until both arms are parallel to the floor. Exhale as you lift the weights. Caution: avoid swinging the torso or bringing the arms back as opposed to the side. After a one second contraction at the top, slowly lower the dumbbells back to the starting position.
Dumbbell Shoulder Press 
Dumbbell Shoulder Press.jpg
While holding a dumbbell in each hand, sit on a military press bench or utility bench that has back support. Place the dumbbells upright on top of your thighs. Now raise the dumbbells to shoulder height one at a time using your thighs to help propel them up into position. Make sure to rotate your wrists so that the palms of your hands are facing forward. This is your starting position. Now, exhale and push the dumbbells upward until they touch at the top. Then, after a brief pause at the top contracted position, slowly lower the weights back down to the starting position while inhaling.
Machine Shoulder (Military) Press 
Machine Shoulder (Military) Press.jpg
Sit down on the Shoulder Press Machine and select the weight. Grab the handles to your sides as you keep the elbows bent and in line with your torso. This will be your starting position. Now lift the handles as you exhale and you extend the arms fully. At the top of the position make sure that you hold the contraction for a second. Lower the handles slowly back to the starting position as you inhale.

