Bench Dips
Bench Dips.jpg
For this exercise you will need to place a bench behind your back. With the bench perpendicular to your body, and while looking away from it, hold on to the bench on its edge with the hands fully extended, separated at shoulder width. The legs will be extended forward, bent at the waist and perpendicular to your torso. This will be your starting position. Slowly lower your body as you inhale by bending at the elbows until you lower yourself far enough to where there is an angle slightly smaller than 90 degrees between the upper arm and the forearm. Tip: Keep the elbows as close as possible throughout the movement. Forearms should always be pointing down. Using your triceps to bring your torso up again, lift yourself back to the starting position. Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
Close-Grip EZ-Bar Press 
Close-Grip EZ-Bar Press.jpg
Lie on a flat bench with an EZ bar loaded to an appropriate weight. Using a narrow grip lift the bar and hold it straight over your torso with your elbows in. The arms should be perpendicular to the floor. This will be your starting position. Now lower the bar down to your lower chest as you breathe in. Keep the elbows in as you perform this movement. Using the triceps to push the bar back up, press it back to the starting position by extending the elbows as you exhale. 
Cable Rope Overhead Triceps Extension 
Cable Rope Overhead Triceps Extension.jpg
Attach a rope to the bottom pulley of the pulley machine. Grasping the rope with both hands, extend your arms with your hands directly above your head using a neutral grip (palms facing each other). Your elbows should be in close to your head and the arms should be perpendicular to the floor with the knuckles aimed at the ceiling. This will be your starting position. Slowly lower the rope behind your head as you hold the upper arms stationary. Inhale as you perform this movement and pause when your triceps are fully stretched. Return to the starting position by flexing your triceps as you breathe out.
Cable One Arm Tricep Extension 
Cable One Arm Tricep Extension.jpg
With your right hand, grasp a single handle attached to the high-cable pulley using a supinated (underhand; palms facing up) grip. You should be standing directly in front of the weight stack. Now pull the handle down so that your upper arm and elbow are locked in to the side of your body. Your upper arm and forearm should form an acute angle (less than 90-degrees). You can keep the other arm by the waist and you can have one leg in front of you and the other one back for better balance. This will be your starting position. As you contract the triceps, move the single handle attachment down to your side until your arm is straight. Breathe out as you perform this movement. Tip: Only the forearms should move. Your upper arms should remain stationary at all times. Squeeze the triceps and hold for a second in this contracted position. Slowly return the handle to the starting position.
Dips - Triceps Version 
Dips - Triceps Version.jpg
To get into the starting position, hold your body at arm's length with your arms nearly locked above the bars. Now, inhale and slowly lower yourself downward. Your torso should remain upright and your elbows should stay close to your body. This helps to better focus on tricep involvement. Lower yourself until there is a 90 degree angle formed between the upper arm and forearm. Then, exhale and push your torso back up using your triceps to bring your body back to the starting position.
Dumbbell One-Arm Triceps Extension 
Dumbbell One-Arm Triceps Extension.jpg
Grab a dumbbell and either sit on a military press bench or a utility bench that has a back support on it as you place the dumbbells upright on top of your thighs or stand up straight. Clean the dumbbell up to bring it to shoulder height and then extend the arm over your head so that the whole arm is perpendicular to the floor and next to your head. The dumbbell should be on top of you. The other hand can be kept fully extended to the side, by the waist, supporting the upper arm that has the dumbbell or grabbing a fixed surface. Rotate the wrist so that the palm of your hand is facing forward and the pinkie is facing the ceiling. This will be your starting position. Slowly lower the dumbbell behind your head as you hold the upper arm stationary. Inhale as you perform this movement and pause when your triceps are fully stretched. Return to the starting position by flexing your triceps as you breathe out. The upper arm should remain at all times stationary nexto your head.
Reverse Grip Triceps Pushdown 
Reverse Grip Triceps Pushdown.jpg
Start by setting a bar attachment on a high pulley machine. Facing the bar attachment, grab it with the palms facing up (supinated grip) at shoulder width. Lower the bar by using your lats until your arms are fully extended by your sides. Tip: Elbows should be in by your sides and your feet should be shoulder width apart from each other. This is the starting position. Slowly elevate the bar attachment up as you inhale so it is aligned with your chest. Only the forearms should move and the elbows/upper arms should be stationary by your side at all times. Then begin to lower the cable bar back down to the original staring position while exhaling and contracting the triceps hard.
